---
layout: "post"
title: "Kanidm 1.3.0"
date: "2024-08-04T12:00:05+10:00"
author: "James Hodgkinson"
categories:  ["blog", "release"]
---

v1.3.0! Woo!

This is the latest stable release of the Kanidm Identity Management project. Every release is the combined effort of our
community and we appreciate their invaluable contributions, comments, questions, feedback and support.

You should review our [support documentation](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/blob/master/book/src/support.md) as this
may have important effects on your distribution or upgrades in future.

Before upgrading you should review our
[upgrade documentation](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/blob/master/book/src/server_updates.md).

## Important Changes

- New GID number constraints are now enforced in this version. To upgrade from 1.2.0 all accounts and groups must adhere
  to these rules. See
  [our upgrade documentation](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/blob/master/book/src/server_updates.md). about tools to
  help you detect and correct affected entries.
- OAuth2 URIs require stricter matching rules to be applied from 1.4.0.
- Security Keys will be removed as a second factor alternative to TOTP from accounts in 1.4.0. It has not been possible
  to register a new security for more than 1 year. Security Keys are surpassed by PassKeys which give a better user
  experience.
- Kanidm now supports FreeBSD and Illumos in addition to Linux.

## Release Highlights

- TOTP update user interface improvements
- Improved error messages when a load balancer is failing
- Reduced server log noise to improve event clarity
- Replace jemalloc with mimalloc
- User session storage can optionally use cookies
- Strictly enforce same-version for backup/restore processes
- Allow name self-write to be withheld
- Add support for LDAP Compare operations
- Reduced memory usage
- Improved update flow when changing from dev to stable server versions
- PIV authentication foundations
- Significant improvements to performance for write and search operations
- Support Illumos
- Begin rewrite of the webui
- OAuth2 allows multiple origins
- Strict redirect URI enforcement in OAuth2
- Lengthen replication MTLS certificate lifetime
- UNIX daemon allows home paths to be in an external mount folder
- Substring indexing for improved search performance
- Upgrade Axum HTTP framework to the latest stable

[View the release on GitHub](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/releases/tag/v1.3.0)
